Add smaller application guides. (#127)
hanami/guides: content/v2.0/application/cli-commands.md

---
title: CLI commands
order: 70
---

Hanami provides a command line interface powered by the [hanami-cli](https://github.com/hanami/cli) gem, with helpful commands for generating a new application, starting a console, starting a development server, displaying routes and more.

## Gem commands

After an initial install via `gem install hanami`, hanami offers two commands:

> ```ruby

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```

> hanami --help

Reviewer: Do we want to use the convention of prefixing shell commands with `$` here?

Commands:
  hanami new APP         # Generate a new Hanami app
  hanami version         # Hanami version
```

### hanami new

Generates a Hanami application with the given APP name, in a new directory from the current location.

```shell
hanami new bookshelf # generates a new Bookshelf application in ./bookshelf

> hanami new my_app # generates a new MyApp application in ./my_application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
hanami new my_app # generates a new MyApp application in ./my_app
```

```

### hanami version

Displays the Hanami version of the currently installed gem.

```shell
hanami version
v2.0.0
```

## Project commands

> When executed from the root of a Hanami project, hanami offers a different set of commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When executed within an Hanami project, hanami offers a different set of commands.
```

(I made a fix last week that ensures `hanami` works to offer app commands even when invoked within deeper app directories)
